Zami Talukder
Mini-Project Report

1. For this visualization, we are answering questions about the money donated and received for a specific country. We are specifically comparing the amount received to the amount donated. For this reason, the actual values are turned into percentages. A grouped barchart is chosen because we want to see how the values compare to each other. It is very easy to visualize when the bars are close to one another or at the same height. It is very easy to tell when one bar is higher than another, or by how much. Of course, the y axis also has the percentages listed. A stacked bar chart was not used because it is more difficult to compare the percentages when the bars are not starting at the same base. Even without the values on the y axis, a grouped bar chart is capable of telling us which value is higher. A stacked bar chart requires us to look at the y axis, then the bars to compare the values. 

2. Here, we are again comparing received or donated amounts but also looking at geographical location. Since we also want to look at neighboring countries that have radically different patterns, we need to use a map. A diverging color scheme is used with this map. This is to show which countries are donating more and which countries are receiving more. The diverging color scheme makes it very easy to tell which country is donating and which is receiving. 

3. In this visualization, we are looking at amount received by countries based on the top 5 reasons to receive money across the world. We are looking at both geographical distribution and reason they received the donations. At first glance, it seems plausible to use a map. However, a map would need to show the amount of times each individual country received donations for each of the top 5 reasons. When using a map, many parts of it would just be left empty as the data for those countries is not available. More importantly, it is difficult to show categorical data that is specific to countries. We need something to show that the five pieces of categorical data is specific to the whole country. A possibility is using pie charts on top of each country, but even that is difficult to show for small countries. This may lead to pie charts of varying sizes, where the size may not mean anything specifically. Also, comparing between the five categories that the pie chart shows will also prove difficult. 

As a result, the focus stayed on visualizing the data more than anything. Since geographical distribution is still a primary concern, the data of countries were grouped into continents. Continents still describe geographical distribution as they group neighboring countries. A grouped bar graph was chosen so the individual values of each purpose can be compared within the continent and between different continents. Unfortunately, there are flaws of grouping the countries into continents and combining their data. The dataset does not have data on each country in the continents, but the visualization implies that it may since its showing data on continents. Also, there may be widely varying data between largely developed and lesser developed countries like USA and Mexico. The visualization would group both of these together (although Mexico is not in this dataset) despite if they had largely varying data. 